Octis, which was formerly known as
Reorg, is today's presenting sponsor on
Business Breakdowns. This is an
essential credit intelligence and data
provider. And they have grown to over
40,000 professionals across leading buy
firms, investment banks, law firms,
advisory firms. And what they're doing
is they're taking the human expertise,
which is so important in credit. They're
embedding it with AI, technology, data
and workflow tools. And that's going to
allow you to unlock all the things you
need, the truths to fuel that decisive
action that you need in the credit
markets. So head over to octis.com to
learn how they have taken this verified
intelligence platform, delivering it at
speed and giving you that complete
picture across the credit life cycle.
You can follow Octis on LinkedIn or X.
there. They will share breaking news and
exclusive coverage and you can find
links to everything in the show notes.
[Music]
>> This is Business Breakdowns.
Business Breakdowns is a series of
conversations with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business. For each business, we explore
its history, its business model, its
competitive advantages, and what makes
it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn from and we are here to bring
them to you. To find more episodes of
breakdowns, check out join colossus.com.
All opinions expressed by hosts and
podcast guests are solely their own
opinions. Hosts and podcast guests may
maintain positions in the securities
discussed in this podcast. This podcast
is forformational purposes only and
should not be relied upon as a basis for
investment decisions. All projections
are based on estimates and analysis from
due diligence from various publicly
available sources. Projections represent
hypothetical performance and do not
reflect the performance achieved or
projected by the podcast guests. There
is no guarantee that such performance
will be achieved and actual results may
vary.
[Music]
This is Matt Russell and we are going
back into the world of alts today with a
breakdown on EQT. Now, right off the
top, I need to mention our guest today,
Shawn Barrett. Couldn't have been more
perfect for this breakdown. You will
hear Shawn has been investing in the
alts since Blackstone christened this
asset class just over a decade ago. He
is the founder of Counter Global and
Alts investing is ingrained in Counter's
DNA. So, we cover the massive yet
lesserk known EQT. We touch on the
Wallenberg family ties, how this
business has continue to generate
returns at scale. But beyond that,
beyond the EQT conversation, you're
going to get a master class on alts
investing throughout this conversation.
I got into some of the nitty-gritty
details that I'd be curious about and I
think any investor would be curious
about when it comes to looking at these
names. I could tell you a million more
reasons why I enjoyed this one, but
let's just get on to the episode.
All right, Sean, I am excited to have
you here to talk EQT
and for this conversation, we were going
back and forth before the episode and I
actually thought the best place to start
for the audience was to share a bit
about your own background in this space
of asset managers, alternative asset
managers. I think you bring some history
in terms of looking at these names. So
maybe you could just start there and we
can take the conversation towards EQT
after we set that in place.
>> Yeah, thanks so much for having me. Love
the show. I listen to a lot of your
episodes and it's great to be here. I've
been studying and following the alt
space for close to 15 years now. The
history really goes back to 2011 2012
when I started studying Blackstone and
back then it was a very complicated
space relatively speaking. I think there
are still some complexities about the
space that make it quite interesting and
allow for investors to be
differentiated. But if you go back to
2012, a lot of the alternative asset
managers, pretty much all the
alternative asset managers that were
public were publicly traded partnerships
or PTPs and that created a lot of
complexity. It meant investors would get
K1s. There was actually a question if
you invested in Blackstone for example,
you might end up with a K1 in every
state where Blackstone operates. So
imagine someone making a $100,000
investment in Blackstone and having 50
K1s. And then adding to that complexity
was the accounting treatment. And that
still continues today. A lot of these
alts are required to consolidate their
underlying funds globally. So what you
end up with is just this mess of
accounting if you don't know what to
look for. But that's what makes it
interesting as well and allows you to
have some differentiation and have a
view on the business that might be
different from others. So over the years
I ended up studying these alts in a way
that I thought was unique and allowed me
to predict the businesses with a little
more clarity than what I was seeing from
the analyst community. That really
started with building up these
businesses on a fund level. So all of
these alts, they manage anywhere from 20
to 50 to 100 funds depending on the alt
that are meaningful funds for them. And
I had this thought that if you could
actually go down and understand each
fund, then you would be able to
understand the two earning streams
better than most. So they earn
management fees and carry. And if you
understood what the funds were doing,
you could figure out are they likely to
raise a bigger fund in the future. And
obviously if you could understand the
investments in each fund, you could
understand when and how much carry they
were going to generate. So all very
interesting stuff. That's still how I
think about the space today. And yeah,
excited to go deeper.
>> I'm just picturing a lot of tabs in an
Excel model depending on which alt
manager you're looking at. But in many
ways, we've come a long way since those
early days of partnerships and the
questions over 50k ones. We'll bring EQT
into the conversation. You referenced
some other names in that first answer
like a Blackstone. EQT I don't think
gets the same type of press coverage
that the others do, but there's some
obvious reasons why perhaps and some
less obvious reasons. How would you just
describe EQT at a high level for those
that aren't as familiar with the name?
>> EQT is a thematic private markets
investment manager. They're based in
Stockholm, but they operate globally. By
thematic I mean they invest behind large
secular growth trends such as
digitization,
AI infrastructure, health care for aging
populations and ecom warehousing. EQT
manages about 270 billion euros of AUM
on a marked basis and about 140 billion
of fee paying AUM. The business can be
broken down into four strategies. They
have a private equity business that
focuses on Europe and the Americas.
That's about 35% of fee paying AUM.
Private equity Asia is about 20%. So
together private equity is about 55% of
the business. Infrastructure is about
30% of fee paying AUM and real estate is
about 15% of fee paying AUM.
Historically, and this is important for
the thesis and the story, EQT's funds
have been top quartortile performers
across strategies, generating 2 and a
halfx gross MOIX for their investors on
those funds and roughly 20% net IRS for
their investors across those funds. We
can get into the differences later, but
I think the whole space should be
grateful that Blackstone went first and
created this wonderful playbook and now
folks like EQT and others get to follow
that playbook and grow their businesses
substantially over the next handful of
years.
>> Yeah. Standing on the shoulders of
giants, even if you become a giant
yourself over time, every alt manager I
feel like has this incredible backstory
typically with larger than-l life
characters. You mentioned Stockholm
origins here. What is the backstory to
EQT and if you can get into just some of
the major stepping stones along the way,
however you would describe the various
chapters because they all seem to start
with these small beginnings before they
get to what we know them as today. What
does that look like for EQT?
>> Yeah, absolutely. To understand EQT, you
really need to understand EQT's heritage
which was driven by the Wallenburgg
family. So the Wallenberg family was
responsible for the founding of SEB in
the 1850s. SEB is the largest bank in
Sweden today and was instrumental in the
country's growth over the last 150
years. So early on SEB the bank took
ownership stakes in companies during
downturns. They would lend to these
companies and they would end up with
shares which led to the creation of
investor AB in 1916 as a dedicated
holding company. The Wallenbergs became
investors in a bunch of Swedish
industrial giants over the years. And
then in the early 1990s, Connie Jansen,
now the chairman of EQT, then in his 30s
and a vice president, pitched the idea
of a Wallenburgg backed PE firm and
investor AB gave Jansen the mandate to
create EQT in 1994. So that was a big
moment. That launch was backed by the
Wallenbergs, but it was also backed by
the Rockefellers and the Melons. And
Conniey's vision was really to marry
Wallenberg corporate governance
practices, values, and industrial
expertise with active ownership that EQT
is known for today.
>> The Wallenburgg ethos, it's a name that
I keep seeing as I research different
things, particularly abroad. What goes
into that?
>> Yeah, the Wallenberg family is really
legendary. They've been a huge part of
Swedish culture and financial
development over the last 100 or 200
years, but their values are incredible.
And I think when it comes to their
values, it's different from a lot of the
private equity world. Frankly, they say
do business the right way. Doing good is
simply good business. They say things
like make friends, not enemies. And if
you actually go to EQT offices and you
meet people who work there, they're
kind, they're transparent, they're
authentic, they're informal. These are
the kinds of things that the Wallenbergs
wanted to see. Those were the values
they lived. And it's really played out
into this culture that embodies the old
values of the Wallenbergs. And then from
a more tangible perspective, it actually
results in really high employee
retention which is rare in the finance
space. I think the attrition rate at EQT
is something like 10% as far as employee
attrition per year and regrettable
attrition we think is 1 or 2%. that
comps very very well to the private
equity world and a lot of that comes
from these values from the Wallenbergs
that makes EQT such a great place to
work and a great place to be an
investor.
>> So they got this incredible foundation
or backing but you obviously can learn a
playbook. It doesn't mean you can
execute a playbook. What did the
execution look like over the next 25
plus years that led them on this path to
where they are? There were a few really
important milestones I would say or
inflection points. So in 1994 they
launched the first fund that was about a
hundred million euros. It was just
focused on Nordic industrial companies
and tech companies. But the idea was to
take these companies and futureproof
them. Find businesses and growing
sectors and futureproof them and make
them better. So it's very similar to
what you hear EQT talk about today, but
it was a smaller version. And then in
the late 1990s,
EQT expanded out of Sweden. And I think
that's a really important moment. Their
first office was in Munich, but it's a
really important part of the company's
history because they wanted to invest
across Europe. And someday they had
aspirations to even go further than
that. But they realized that they
couldn't do that with just a small team
sitting in Stockholm. If they wanted to
grow and do it in a thoughtful way, they
needed people all over. And that really
led to their local with locals approach.
And the local with locals approach is
something they talk about a lot today.
It's a differentiator for EQT. But they
have people all over the world. I think
30 plus offices at this point. So if you
have a deal getting done in Italy, it's
led by an ekitarian in Milan who
probably knows the selling family, knows
the local nuances, the local
regulations. That was born by necessity
really in the '9s when they realized
they couldn't do it well just sitting in
one office. And when it comes to putting
a 22 billion euro fund to work and doing
a really good job with it, they really
only need to do about a deal per office
versus a lot of peers that manage big
funds out of two or three flagship
offices and it becomes much more
difficult for those firms to generate
great returns crossborder.
>> Yeah, deal making is very much a contact
sport and having some connectivity to
the counterparty certainly helps. I
think us in the US there's often cliches
about the coastal elites trying to make
their way to the Midwest to do deals and
not quite clicking.
>> Yes. So yeah, I think this is a
particularly good example. Before we
push forward, I want to get into a lot
more what you just mentioned there. If
you were to take a snapshot of what
truly differentiates EQT and I think you
mentioned some aspects with thematic but
if we were to take the big names in the
US like an Apollo, KKR, Brookfield and
comp EQT, what stands out that might
feel different about EQT's operations
from those large players in the US?
>> It's probably a good moment to just
discuss why we like the alt space to
start with and then I can get into the
differentiating factors. Obviously, I've
been investing in the alts for many
years as we discussed. I would say
number one, we're in the middle of a
multi-deade shift from banks and
traditional asset managers to
alternative capital providers. And when
you look at the alts, they can provide
capital with more flexibility, more
consistency. So, that's number one. The
alt space is gaining share, growing 10%
a year. We think the alt space will
double by 2030 and probably double again
by 2040. Number two, within the alt
market, the space is consolidating and
the leadership positions are really
durable. So, there's a lot to like. You
mentioned some of the other alt players.
There is a lot to like about these
scaled players. If you look at the list
of leading alts 20 years ago, it's more
or less the same list that you see
today. So, these are very durable
businesses and the barriers to success
are very high. Number three, the
financial models for these businesses
are really attractive. They have
long-term capital, 10-year funds. The
businesses are easy to model and predict
for the most part, and they generate a
lot of free cash flow. And then lastly,
with few exceptions, the large alts are
run by super highly ambitious, talented,
and innovative leaders, which is hard to
find in most companies, but it tends to
concentrate pretty well in the alt
space. And then to your question, what
makes an attractive alt for us? How does
EQT differentiate? We think about
quality in the alts like we do for any
business at counter which is based on
product and profits. So for product
quality, this is a people business. The
quality of the business really starts
with the quality of the people and does
the firm have an ability to recruit and
retain amazing people. We talked about
EQT having industry low attrition rates.
They've got a great culture and they've
got the ability to recruit and retain
amazing people and they pay them well.
So it self- selects for great investors
who want the accountability around
carry. Second, we want to see the firm
have a repeatable process for generating
great returns at scale. And if a firm
can't do that, we aren't interested.
EQTs generated 20% net IRS for its
investors at scale for many decades.
It's incredibly hard to do, but they've
got a process around it that is
repeatable and has endured. And then
third, we want to see a firm that
innovates. So if you look at the
traditional asset managers of yester
year, they were seemingly unstoppable.
And most of them didn't innovate and
they are shrinking ice cubes now. So
it's really important to us as long-term
investors that we see great people,
great process, and then innovation. And
then for its profit model, we'll get
into it a bit later. EQT has 50% EBITDO
margins with low capital intensity, lots
of free cash flow that it delivers back
to shareholders through dividends and
share buybacks. So, it's a great fit for
how we think about highquality
businesses at counter.
>> You mentioned one of the dynamics that
exists within all of finance, which is
the idea of generating great returns
even as you're getting higher scale,
more scale, bigger in size. And the math
says it's going to be increasingly
difficult to keep up that rate of
return. What would you say that process
is for EQT in the best way that you
could describe it? I'm sure there's some
secret sauce that exists only behind
closed doors at EQT, but what would your
own description be around what allows
them to do that?
>> I love talking about the differentiation
here and so I could go on for a while,
so please pause me if it's too much.
>> Give it to us. But yeah, the
differentiation at EQT really starts at
the beginning of the life cycle of an
investment which starts with the firm's
thematic investment approach. So they're
investing in growing sectors. A lot of
what they do is software, healthcare,
and data centers. And within those,
they're typically buying a leader that
will benefit from those secular trends
and benefit from pricing power. With
regards to sourcing, EQT operates that
local with locals approach that started
really in the 90s. And again, it allows
them to do two things. One is that if a
deal is getting done by a local, that
local investor has better knowledge of
the respective geography and the local
nuances and usually has a relationship
with the seller. So that helps with the
returns, but it also leads to higher
velocity deal sourcing. As we talked
about on a 22 billion euro flagship
fund, EQT only needs about a deal per
fund per office to get that fund
complete. So it's a real differentiator.
From there, they futureproof the
companies they own. That work typically
starts with establishing a new board,
improving the management team if needed,
and establishing a plan to digitize the
business. So that's their big thing
digitizing and futurep proofing
businesses and then the board has an
informal subcommittee which is called a
troa and this is really unique to EQT.
The troa is made up of the portfolio
company CEO an EQT partner and the
chairperson who is generally an
independent advisor from the EQT
network. On a side note EQT's specialty
in governance and management is really
unique. It's consistent with its Nordic
heritage. A lot of it's attributed to
the Wallenbergs and governance practices
in Sweden are I think unique globally. I
sat on the nominating committee of a
public company for many years in Sweden
and it's a really admirable corporate
culture where the board explicitly works
for the nominating committee who
explicitly works for shareholders in
Sweden. It's great process. It's great
alignment and a lot of that is
attributed to EQT and the Wenbergs. And
then after the acquisition, EQT gets to
work on adding value further often
through making bolt-on acquisitions.
Now, historically, making bolt-on
acquisitions in private equity was a
super time inensive process. You'd
usually have an analyst and an associate
go and put together a list of maybe 20,
30 targets. It might take them two or
three weeks to create that list, debate
it internally, see if they can find
contact information. EQT realized this
was an important part of their playbook.
And they started what 10 years ago was
just a data analysis tool called
Motherbrain. Motherbrain actually
evolved into an AI automated decision
support tool over time and it's a real
differentiator for them. So effectively
it pulls data from tons of sources
online, pitchbook, LinkedIn and then it
also combines that data with EQT's
internal data from prior diligence. So
when a portfolio company today wants to
make an acquisition, instead of an
associate spending two weeks pulling a
list together and maybe reaching out to
people a month or two down the line,
Mother Brain can take a few prompts and
give the team a list of targets
immediately. Usually that's accompanied
by revenue size and contact information.
So that's been a really cool
differentiator for the business. And
I've given you a lot here, but when you
combine all that, the strategy around
thematic investing, the repeatable
process, future proofing companies based
on local with locals, and an intense
focus on governance. It's all resulted
in EQT owning companies that on average
grow revenue 12 to 15% a year and IBIDA
15 plus percent a year on average. So
the composition of EQT's fund returns is
much more growth driven than multiple
expansion or leverage driven and that's
what's resulted in this top quartile
return generation at scale with 20% net
IRS for their investors. Yeah, it
certainly seems like there's an
operational expertise which is
differentiated and stems from the
business itself of EQT into the
businesses that they own and that's
reflected with some great naming
conventions for the various things that
they roll out as well. One of the things
that we usually talk about when we talk
about alts which we haven't really got
into with EQT is the leadership team and
you described some of the early leaders
of the business. Usually you have
someone who holds the torch and then
we've seen with some of the North
American alts there's been a passing of
the torch recently. I know EQT has a
slightly different model. So walk
through that and the players that are
involved or even how you would frame
leadership's importance to what they're
doing. Leadership at the alternative
asset managers is so critical because
again it is a people business and going
back to first principles on what makes a
great alt for us the ability to recruit
and retain and manage great people
that's a first principle requirement for
success. So when you look at a lot of
the alts they've dealt with succession
in a pretty similar way. They've started
with a founding group and they've passed
it on to a successor group that they
think can run the business usually for
15 20 plus years and you've seen that in
the US with some really great leadership
transitions that worked really well.
This was a big risk if you go back 10 or
15 years there was a big philosophical
question about alts going public how
they would able to handle the
transitions from founder groups to the
next generation. would that disrupt the
businesses in meaningful ways? And I
think most of the alts did a really
fantastic job of finding a great next
generation of leaders. If you look at
EQT,
they've handled it differently. So
instead of the founders picking a new
leader or a new generation that can run
the business for 20 years, they've
decided that they will run the business
more like a typical operating company or
a typical company. So if you look at
average CEO tenure in public markets, I
think it's about 5 years in Europe. And
EQT has been pretty similar in its
current form. EQT has been around for
about 30 years. They've had five or six
CEOs. And Christian Sindling, the CEO
for the last 6 and a half years, just
recently was elevated to chairman and
passed the reigns on to P Fronen, who
was running the private equity business
for a bunch of years. Christian's young.
I think Christian's in his 50s. He's got
a lot of energy. And I actually got to
spend some time with him in London last
month. And I asked him, why now? You're
young. You're obviously talented
manager. you've done so much for this
business. He's had an incredible impact
on EQT. He started with EQT something
like 28 years ago. He ran the PE
business and ultimately led the firm
through its IPO in 2019. Since then,
EQT's assets have increased forex and
the firm's returns have been excellent.
So, it's been an intensely productive
period for the company and a lot to be
proud of for Christian. But as Christian
pointed out to me, EQT's culture is very
forward thinking, very forward-looking,
and they believe deeply in elevating
generations of leadership while those
new leaders still have the energy and
the ambition to create substantial
value. So, Pere Francon is taking over
as CEO for Christian, but when Pere
elevates from head of PE to CEO at EQT,
it's not just one person elevating. It's
actually a whole group of people who get
to elevate. Again, this is a bit
different from how the US alts have
thought about succession. Like
everything at EQT, they do it in their
own way and stick to their values and
this is one of their values.
>> Yeah, there was a somewhat viral
interview with Chris Hone and Christian
on stage recently and my immediate
takeaway was Christian does not look old
enough to retire. when you consider what
he went through as he over the past five
years, that is a career's worth of
accomplishment. So, I can certainly
understand that. But I do have this
sense of succession planning as a piece
of very effective governance and tying
it back to the culture there and I think
it's perhaps overlooked sometimes in the
US where succession planning is done
when there's an event that requires it
or a catalyst that it needs to happen
rather than being thought out well in
advance. And I think the precedent of
these 5year or so tenurs would point to
that. So it is interesting to see how
that differs from some of the other
businesses where it feels like the value
really sits with a lot of the people at
the top of the business and it's hard to
differentiate the enterprise versus the
individual.
>> Yes, absolutely. So one other question I
had which somewhat referenced the idea
that the alt space has had this
opportunity recently with the
flexibility that they have especially
relative to banks or historical funds
and one thing that comes to mind
whenever I think about flexibility is
regulation. Regulation is the one thing
that can hamper down flexibility and
restrict it. Is there anything unique
about operating in Sweden, operating in
Europe that is very different from what
North American funds would have to think
about when it relates to regulation?
>> Yes, operating in Europe is actually
quite complex and the EU is obviously a
big place, but there are tons of borders
and each country has its own set of
regulations, its own set of rules and
its own cultural nuances. So, I actually
think operating with success in Europe
is very, very difficult. It has some
pros and cons when it comes to
regulation around the financial side of
the business. Sweden actually has its
own central bank. So that's unique
within Europe. It has a Rick's bank,
it's called, whereas there are broader
central banks that manage the rest of
Europe, UK, and the US. So that's a
nuance. But the Ricks Bank has always
been, I think, really well-managed.
Their focus at the Rick's bank is
basically to manage inflation whereas a
lot of central banks around the world
have dual mandates to manage inflation
and employment. That focus on stability
at the Ricks Bank I think actually makes
it a really nice place to operate as a
financial services firm. And then a
benefit I would say depending on how you
look at it is you do have at times
looser regulation around financial
services firms in the US and at times in
Europe. The US has really adopted this
model of asset bases being the important
focus and when you hit a certain asset
base that's when you get more regulated
in the banking system that starts at 50
and 100 billion and then 250 billion is
a real line in the sand where your
regulation goes up substantially from
there. In Europe, I think they think
more around systemic risks and they tend
to have really responsible operators as
a result who don't want to get into that
gray area of systemic risk. And then the
last thing I would say that's
interesting about operating in Europe as
a financial services firm and
specifically for EQT is that based on
their ability to have entities in
different jurisdictions, they benefit
from a really low tax rate. EQT's tax
rate on a blended basis is something
like 10%. They actually don't get taxed
at all on the carry business and that's
a nuance that might change over time,
but the tax rate is very low and so the
free cash flow generation that they can
send back to shareholders is actually
substantially higher than other markets.
The nuance and the nitty-gritty details,
but I always find that stuff interesting
and it can make a difference. some of
those differences in rates can compound
quite largely over time. So interesting
to hear about getting into their
strategy which you outlined really well.
One question I had on the thematic
approach, are they deploying that with
specific funds dedicated to those themes
or are those underlying themes that
exist within a broader private equity
fund where we're going to target these
three themes within this vintage? How
did they approach that?
>> Historically, it was all part of big
flagship private equity funds and a fund
historically the flagship strategy at
EQT was roughly 40% healthcare and 60%
tech enabled services. A lot of software
a lot of tech increasingly over time
again Blackstone led the charge and
really created the playbook for
everyone. Everyone should be very
grateful for that. But over time, EQT
has actually started launching sleeve
strategies that allow investors to have
exposure to one trend if they want it.
An example of that would be energy
transition. So out of the infrastructure
business, their infrastructure business
really focuses on growing sectors. It's
not toll roads or what I would call
boring infrastructure. These are growthy
businesses like data center businesses
that have lots of underlying tailwinds
from stuff like AI digitization and AI
infrastructure. But then within that
they've also realized that people might
want exposure to specifically to data
centers and they can focus on that
through co-invest or specifically energy
transition where EQ is very good and so
they have an energy transition fund and
I think these sleeves will be more and
more common. Another example is that EQT
Asia, we'll get into more detail on it,
really has an advantage in India
specifically. So something like 40% of
the Asia private equity business at EQT
is India focused. They've done a
tremendous job investing in India. It's
a very hard place to invest. You need
talented people on the ground. That's
become a strength. I wouldn't be
surprised at all if EQT launches an
India sleeve at some point so people can
just focus on that. And by the way, I
think it would be really valuable for
their investors if they chose to do
that. Unbundling of private equity or
private capital just like everything
else. A conglomerate era is no more
certainly makes a lot of sense and I
think we see it everywhere. diving into
the strategies that you laid out a bit.
There's increasingly sleeves of
different strategies that they're
looking into. I think when I looked at
various presentations that talked about
private assets, real assets, wealth,
would you say that there is a
bellweather strategy for the business
that you think is viewed as the most
important thing to monitor or a growth
strategy that you think is most
important to keep an eye on? Obviously,
they're all important, but how would you
frame that?
>> They have four strategies. We're
actually tremendously excited about all
four of them, and they're really great
franchises. So, stop me if anything
becomes interesting, but the first
strategy is private equity, Europe, and
Americas. So, that's Asia. It's about 50
billion euros of fee paying aum. And
again, they invest behind thematic
sectors. So, it's a lot of healthcare
and tech within that strategy. That's
most of the strategy if you really break
it down. And I think they're trying to
find
important tech and healthcare companies
of the future. Usually leaders in their
markets, but businesses that need some
help futureproofing and growing to get
into that inflection and hit the next
level of their growth. I think a good
case study for example would be IFS,
which IFS is a leader in industrial
software or software that helps
companies manage their assets and
people. It's effectively an ERP software
company for capital intensive
industries. This was a publicly traded
company 10 years ago that nobody really
cared too much about. It was doing a few
hundred million of revenue. It was on
premise software. It was growing single
digits. EQT took it over and really got
to work. I think they had the vision
that this was a great market and they
got to work on futureproofing the
company. So what did that mean here?
That meant switching the company,
replatforming the business into a true
cloud provider. And today that business
is doing 1.2 billion euros of ARR,
growing 30 plus% with EVIDA margins of
30 plus%. So think about that as a
transformation. That is not your old
boring private equity playbook. That's
taking a business at 300 million of
revenue growing, single digits, 4xing
the business, and taking revenue growth
from single digits to 30%. It's really
impressive. And that's the playbook at
EQT.
>> Guessing somewhere in the 1 to3 billion
range in terms of the acquisition size.
Is that in the ballpark of what they're
normally buying? How much does that vary
just in terms of the size of what
they're doing when they deploy capital?
>> Yeah, we think a lot of their check
sizes end up being in the flagship fund
end up being in that 500 million to one
a.5 billion euro range on the very high
end. Their most recent fund was 22
billion euros in private equity. That's
one of the bigger private equity funds
in the world. And within that, they also
have the ability to tack on co-invest.
So if they have a need for more capital,
they can tap their partners and the
partners can help with co-invest. It's
also something that big LPS really like.
They view that co-invest as an
opportunity to bring down the blended
fee rate and it's good partnership. On a
side note, it's also a reason that we're
comfortable that EQT can continue
generating great returns at larger and
larger fund sizes because if you look
back over the last 5 or 10 years, yes,
their flagship fund has doubled in the
last seven years, the fund size has
doubled, but at the same time, they use
so much co-invest along the way that
they've actually been investing more and
more over time, bigger dollars over
time, and then they've done a really
good job with returns. So the private
equity business has generated a 21% net
irra historically for investors.
EQarians they like to call themselves
performance gatherers not asset
gatherers but if you keep generating 21%
net IRS for your investors they will
happily give you more and more money and
that's why this business has grown so
quickly.
>> Yeah. One certainly leads to the other.
That is the case. I interrupted as we
progressed through some of the
strategies so we can push on. Yes. So,
EQT Asia, this is a strategy that we're
really excited about. EQT Asia manages
about 25 billion of fee paying AUM if
you include the most recent fund raise
in 2025. And EQT acquired this business
in 2022. It was formerly the Bearings
Private Equity Asia business. So,
everyone refers to this business as BPA,
but it's a fantastic franchise that's
been generating great returns for
investors for almost 30 years. Almost
half of EQT Asia's business is in India
and they have effectively no China
exposure but the India market is really
attractive. It's growing GDP 6 to 8%
perom and EQT is buying tech and
healthcare leaders in that market that
can typically grow revenue 15 to 20%.
The interesting thing about India it's
really underpenetrated from a private
equity perspective. It's actually a very
small private equity market. EQT we
think has a 10 or 20 percent market
share of that private equity market in
India. So they've established themselves
as a leader but you really need people
on the ground. If I think back actually
early in my career 10 or 15 years ago I
was looking at a couple software
businesses in India that I thought were
quite interesting and attractive and I
actually called a friend who's been
investing and operating businesses in
India for at this point 30 years. I said
hey you know here are some interesting
businesses. What do you think I should
do? He says, "Don't do it." He says,
"You're gonna get your face ripped off.
You can't invest in India sitting in
California. You need people on the
ground. You need to know the players.
You need to know what's going on on the
ground." And it was really good advice
that he gave me, but it's even more
impressive looking at what EQT has done.
They've just created an unbelievable
business. They've got a great team. I
think a repeatable process to find great
businesses there. So when you think
about what EQT Asia is doing, think IVF
businesses in India, underpenetrated
market, big impact on society, nice
long-term grower or Nord Anglia, which
is an education business. They actually
took private almost I think 17 years ago
and they've owned off and on since then,
but they've expanded that business into
India and it's a great case study. I
think they've actually grown revenue 10x
in that business since they bought it.
And more importantly, Nord Anglia has a
96% student retention rate. 40% of its
students go to top 100 universities
globally after. So, it's had a great
impact on society, but it's also made
EQT investors a lot of money along the
way. And I think that's what EQT really
is known for. It's like great impact and
great returns. Is the purchase of
Bearing's business was that unique to
that specific situation or is that
something that they use a strategic tool
to expand into new strategies?
>> It is something that EQT is used as a
tool, the M&A muscle. And frankly, I'm
always skeptical of M&A, whether it's in
the financial services industry or the
tech industry. It comes with different
risks. For tech, the integration of the
technology is always very difficult,
more difficult than people think. And it
creates a huge risk. It takes focus off
from other things management can be
doing. In financial services, it's also
a huge risk. I mean, it's a people
business. You have to get the cultures
right. Sometimes there's organ failure
and it can be a huge problem. So, I was
actually skeptical. I'll admit it. When
EQT bought BPA, I thought, gosh, this is
going to be tough. It's a big business.
It's a different geography. I will give
EQT credit. They did an unbelievable job
not only sourcing this investment or
sourcing this acquisition, but also
integrating it. The leadership at EQ
Asia is exceptional. They've actually
held on to the shares that they got as
part of that acquisition and some of the
leaders there are now the largest
shareholders in EQT and the returns have
been exceptional. So, that's been a
great one. EQT also bought what is now
its real estate business. It was known
as Exitter before that. I think this was
a slightly easier integration if you
will just because the geographies but EQ
acquired the exit business in 2021 and
they've roughly doubled extorum since
then. So while M&A is really tough in
financial services, I think EQT is a
thoughtful process around how they do
it. they do it consistent with their
values and they've done a pretty good
job even though they don't have credit
today for example I could see them
leaning back into a credit through an
acquisition sometime in the future was a
future question on my list so we got
that one checked off
give us some description about the
remaining buckets that we haven't talked
about
>> yes so moving on to the infrastructure
business of EQT's
140 billion euros of fee paying AUM.
This business is about4 billion and it's
growing really quickly. So, I'm glad
we're touching on it. Consistent with
EQT's thematic strategy, this business
isn't buying toll roads. They're buying
assets in big thematic growth areas. So,
they specialize in stuff like digital
infrastructure and energy transition
markets. Both of these are massive
growth opportunities, but they require a
lot of deep sector expertise. and EQT
has been investing in both for a really
long time. By chance, both of these
sectors have really exploded with AI,
which requires a lot of digital
infrastructure or data centers, but it
also requires a lot of energy to power
those data centers. So, EQT is in a
really good spot now with what the world
probably looks like in the next 10
years. And the numbers are just totally
astronomical. But both of these sectors
will require many trillions of dollars
of investment in the next couple decades
and the capital just isn't there. And
whenever you have a large supply demand
imbalance like this, it generally
results in really great returns. And EQT
we think is probably the best positioned
all out there to capitalize on AI
trends. Briefly digging into the
business of EQT infrastructure just for
a second. It's the same size flagship
fund as the private equity. So they have
a 22 billion euro flagship fund in
infrastructure. That's up from the last
vintage at 16 billion euros. And
historically they've generated about a 2
and a halfx gross MOIC on their
infrastructure business. So we're really
excited about this business. Not only do
we think EQT will continue generating
great returns in infrastructure for
their investors, we think that'll result
in a lot of growth in the flagship fund.
And then they're also launching sleeve
strategies outside of that that will
supplement growth.
>> Yeah, it's certainly very thematic and
of the moment speaks for itself. What is
the final bucket of the four?
>> Yeah, lastly, we could briefly cover the
EQT real estate business. This was
formerly known as Exitter, an
acquisition they made in 2021. And
again, they've doubled AUM at exit since
then to about 20 billion euros today.
digging into the business of EQT real
estate. It's a really unique business
because they effectively raise a new
vintage every year. So that's different
from how a lot of opportunistic real
estate investors work globally. And then
they put that to work and then they go
back and raise more. Like the rest of
EQT, the real estate strategy is focused
on thematic investing using local with
locals approach. And that's a real
advantage in real estate. around 90% of
the business is industrial and
warehousing. So that benefits from
trends like global ecom and they're
local with local investors again make it
a great fit but it's vertical real
estate. They talk a lot about doing real
estate not just investing in real estate
meaning EQT does all the development
operations leasing and property
management themselves. Again, this is
super unique in the industry and in
fact, they're so good at it that when
they sell a property, the buyer usually
retains EQT to continue operating the
asset. I think that just speaks worlds
to how good they are at operating. I
mean, imagine buying an asset from a
competitor of yours and then paying them
to continue running that asset. And
that's literally what people do with
EQT. Historically, the EQT real estate
business has been top quartile or top
decel across its funds. Just a really
exceptional track record. Blackstone
real estate is the gold standard in the
industry and obviously they've done an
exceptional job. But we think EQT has
the right to grow based on its
historical returns and we think this can
be a much bigger business over time. So
if you put all of that in the soup, we
talked about four strategies. I gave you
a lot there, but EQT as a whole is
generating amazing returns for its
investors and as a result, the LPs are
entrusting it with more and more capital
over time. So, we think the GP can
double its assets in the next few years
and then probably double assets again in
the next four or five years after that.
One followup I had on the real estate
strategy, the annual fundraising. Is
there a reason why they go with that
versus what you would see in the other
strategies?
>> It's really interesting. I think it's
actually a part of the history of exit,
which was a unique asset manager that
did things that way for so long. And I
think when EQ bought it, they had the
idea that the rest of the industry does
it this other way, raising opportunistic
funds every 3 to 5 years. But actually
this way that Extra does it makes a lot
of sense and they've done a really good
job doing it and the returns have been
incredible. I think there are some
benefits to it and I think the
investors, the LPS exit have been so
happy that they're really excited to go
back and invest more and more every
year. You can't do that unless you have
really strong DPI or distribution to
paid in capital. If you're not giving
money back to your investors, you can't
expect them to reup every year. But EQT
has seasoned its investors, if you will,
to get them used to the idea of giving
more and more money or entrusting the
firm with more and more money every
year. And it's really unique. The last
piece of the deal process that I wanted
to talk about relates to exiting an
investment and I think you brought up a
very interesting case there where they
own a business for 17 years which would
fall out of any traditional fund
timeline. So do they have a different
philosophy when it comes to owning
investments? It's something that's very
topical right now in the market and just
the thought process around that. And I
think it's something that Christian was
actually talking about in that
previously mentioned interview. How do
you think about their approach to the
final step of the process and realizing
a return on an investment?
>> I think this gets to EQT's ability to
innovate over time and stay ahead of the
group when it comes to both sourcing but
also exiting. And so when we look at
exiting, historically in the alt market,
there were really two ways to exit
investment. that was to either sell to
another private equity firm or a
strategic or take a company public. And
the problem with those two things is
that they both require at the very least
a very stable macro environment and
usually a pretty good macro environment
to get either one of those done. EQT's
innovated a lot as far as how it exits.
So obviously they still have the regular
way exits, the IPOs, the sales to
strategics, the sales to private equity
firms. Increasingly, they have started
using alternative forms of exits, some
that are unique to EQT. So, the first
one that they actually just started
doing recently, and I think you'll see a
lot more of, is what they call a private
IPO. Historically, secondaries, if you
wanted to sell a secondary, you would
just sell a 50 or $100 million chunk to
one buyer. You would negotiate directly
with that buyer. What EQT realized was
the secondary market is growing very
quickly. There actually a lot of buyers
for potential secondaries. Why don't we
run a process like you would with an
IPO? You can sell a billion euros of
stock to 20 investors. And behind the
scenes, they're probably competing with
each other for capital. It's giving EQT
a better price, but it also allows them
every year for a business they love to
just have this private IPO, hold on to
what they want to, and monetize what
they want to. So, that's a really cool
piece of innovation. We think they'll
use that a lot more in the future. They
continue to use the secondary market.
The secondary market's growing very
quickly. It's actually got a lot of
tailwinds behind it and we think with
more and more capital that'll actually
be a benefit to private equity sellers
as well who want to monetize a bit. And
then the last one is something we talked
about but it's running with the winners
is what EQT says and that can be in the
form of continuation funds or selling
investments to future funds. Now, they
have to be careful because continuations
of bad deals would really upset
investors, but EQT has historically done
a good job holding on to its true
winners for a long time. So, they have
investor trust in this regard. If you
look back and the last two really big
ones, they held on to Nord Anglia for 17
years off and on, IFS for 9 or 10 years.
These are huge multiples of money. So
when they go to investors and they say,
"Hey, we want to do a continuation
vehicle for this investment or we want
to sell it into our new flagship fund,"
investors actually trust them to do
that.
>> I have to say, I love the private IPO
strategy. That's a new one, but I like
it and it makes a lot of sense. So
interesting to see the innovations as
you mentioned. The other side of the
coin, which we've talked about
throughout the conversation, is
fundraising. And they hit on a
staggering number. I think it was 75
billion euro in the 21 to 23 fundraising
cycle. Just focusing on that period of
time, was that a surprise in terms of
their ability to raise at those levels?
Did it just come in line with the
expectations that you might have had? I
just want to capture some of the
historical precedent because they've
obviously laid out a number for the
future and coming off that big number.
How do you remember that time frame and
their ability to execute on that?
>> Yeah, actually I do think this was a bit
of a surprise at least for me. EQT was
managing about 50 billion euros of fee
paying AUM going into that last fund
raise. So that jump organically took
them from something like 50 billion of
fee paying aum all the way to 125 and
then they acquired a bit and all in they
got to 130 to 140 billion of fee paying
aum which is where they are today. But
for a company with 50 billion to jump
and raise 75 billion euros is
unbelievable. And I think it really
comes down to a trend that we've seen.
And I think this was an aha moment for
me frankly where at sub50 billion sub7
75 billion you have a few channels that
you can really go to for fundraising and
it's really the more traditional
institutional channels. You don't have a
lot of retail because your brand isn't
there and you don't have a ton of
exposure to sovereign wealth funds who
are writing those 1 to2 billion euro
checks. And then what we've noticed is
that when alternative asset managers get
to that 50 to 100 billion euro scale,
their world really opens up. If they
have good returns, they can go to other
retail channels, new retail channels,
and tap that. Retail's 10% of the
business today. It was probably very
little, a very small piece of the
business 10 years ago. We think it'll
continue getting bigger. and then more
importantly the sovereign wealth funds
writing 1 to2 billion euro checks all of
a sudden you're right in their
wheelhouse. So what we've seen is that
these alts that hit 50 to 100 it's very
hard for an alt to get to 50 to 100 and
then once they get there if they have
good returns they can hit this
inflection point their world opens up
their channels opened up and I think EQT
really experienced that same trend.
Yeah, it's always interesting when you
find something that has a slope that
inlects and there's an acceleration in
growth or at least the opportunity. When
you mention retail, should I be thinking
about that as high net worth channels
that exist in large pools through
whatever you might call brokerages or
whatever it might be, but is that the
right framing to have for the retail
bucket? When we refer to retail in the
alt space, it's really referring to a
lot of it's coming from the wirehouse
channels. So, think the big banks that
serve high- net worth clients. And
again, this is a benefit of not going
first. So, if you look back at the
history of this market, the idea that
the alts would serve retail was a bit of
a pipe dream for a long time. And
Blackstone did a ton of work on this and
then other great investment firms in
parallel were doing a ton of work. Aries
and others that you know that are public
KKR, Apollo, etc. So at EQT, they've
built out this retail business called
Nexus and it's a NAV based strategy
unlike its other funds and it
effectively offers evergreen vehicles to
retail investors. So again, frankly
following the Blackstone playbook that's
been so successful. So this is like
BEIT, the non-traded REIT that
Blackstone has, BCRED, but it's for
EQT's flagship funds. EQT started with a
retail vehicle in 2024 in private
equity. They quickly raised a billion
euros. They realized, wow, this is a big
opportunity. Our brand is actually good
enough that we can do this now. And in
2025, they're set to launch five more
retail vehicles around infrastructure
and different geographies. So, this is
going to be a big growth driver for
them. Again, we think retail for EQT is
probably 10% of the capital today. We
think it can go to 20% of AUM over time.
Big buckets and I think they'll take
advantage of those.
>> As you think about the fundraising
target of 100 billion for the next
cycle. We've touched on your drive
returns that leads to higher likelihood
of successful fundraising. What else
would you just discuss when you think
about monitoring that target and
following along that pace of fundraising
because you have the feebase and then
the carry and the fee base is a big
piece of the story. So how do you think
about framing that what is another very
large number
>> and it is a big piece of the story. I
mean what we've seen historically is
that the stock prices tend to be very
well correlated to asset growth for the
alts. So it's an important part of the
thesis. It starts with generating great
returns like you said and having LPs who
are willing to entrust you with more and
more capital. I think for the upcoming
fundraising cycle there is a lot of
skepticism in the market from investors
and research analysts as to whether EQT
can raise the hundred billion euros.
It's a lot of capital. They manage 140
billion euros today. So adding a hundred
billion euros to that is no small feat.
And if you look at the market, rates are
a lot higher than they were during the
last fundraising cycle. And a lot of
investors are increasingly full up on
private equity. At the same time, large
LPS need to generate good returns to
cover their future liabilities, which
are also growing very rapidly with
higher inflation and higher social
inflation. So those investors are
looking to best-in-class private equity
firms to help them accomplish those
goals. I think smaller PE firms will
struggle in this environment, especially
those that haven't generated great
returns for their investors, but the
large best-in-class PE firms with great
returns are frankly benefiting and
gaining a ton of share. We just saw a
couple weeks ago Toma Bravo announced
they' raised $34 billion,
24 in the flagship private equity
vehicle, and 10 billion in sleeves
around that vehicle. That tells me that
the market's healthy enough for great
investment firms to continue raising
money, but I think the mediocre ones
will have a lot of trouble. And then,
while the market's tougher today than it
was in 2021, EQT also has some growth
drivers today that it didn't have back
then. So we talked about the retail
business continuation vehicles, the
sovereign wealth channel that's becoming
a bigger part of their business and then
lastly EQT is innovating and launching
these carveout strategies like the
transition strategy, regional
strategies, future strategy. So even if
the fundraising environment is tougher,
going back to the building blocks again,
we build up and predict this business
based on each fund. And when I look at
each flagship fund they're trying to
raise across private equity, across
Asia, infrastructure and real estate,
the returns and the DPI have been so
good in the last 5 or 10 years that you
build those up and you realize that
those franchises are likely to continue
growing pretty substantially. The last
thing I'll say about it, the first data
point we have on this fund raise is BPA,
Bearings Private Equity Asia, which is
raising its flagship fund right now. The
last fund was 10 billion. It looks like
this next fund will either hit the hard
cap at 14 billion or maybe end up at 12
a.5 to 13. But it's a 30% step up. And
that's consistent with what you want to
see for them to go from 75 billion in
the last fund raise to something more
like 100 in this fund raise.
>> Yeah, it's interesting how power law
shows up. Feels like what you're
describing in the private equity space
is another example of that being the
case. One thing you mentioned there
which is admittedly how I thought about
this the asset growth and what assets
they have under management a feebased
model it's very easy to understand and
run through and excel versus the
investment results which most people
just aren't going through the individual
funds to model that out. Do you see
large gaps or opportunities just from
your own perspective as looking at these
as stocks where there's a disconnect
between the AUM and what they're
generating within the funds themselves
that create opportunities? Oh,
definitely. If you go back gosh 10 or 15
years, the best time to invest in these
alts was always when people were not
expecting much in the form of carry. So
that's a lesson that I got to see from
many of the other alts and it's
something that we've applied to EQ. If
you look back to 2015 and 16 investing
in firms like Apollo and Blackstone at
the time macro was shaky and public
market investors were very reluctant to
ascribe value to the future carry that
could be generated by those great firms.
And it turns out that was a great time
to invest because those were growing
innovative firms. And if you fast
forward, of course, they did generate a
ton of carry. And on top of that, they
innovated and they grew substantially in
the years ahead. So, we're using that
pattern recognition here to our
advantage. At the moment, analysts are
expecting very little for EQ in the form
of carry over the next few years.
Meanwhile, EQT has generated carry on
every fund it's ever had since the early
1990s. and management has said that just
on the existing funds they think they'll
generate over 8 billion euros of carry.
That doesn't include the funds from the
next fund raise. So it's pretty likely
that you end up getting back almost a
third of your market cap in the form of
carry just in the next 5 years and then
of course the firm can continue
generating a lot more carry after that.
>> It's a very interesting observation that
then leads into a feedback loop with the
fundraising. So, it's fun to get into
the weeds on this. I think we've covered
the financial model in some high level,
but can you just describe how you would
frame the business maybe from an income
statement standpoint through margins
which you described a little bit into
free cash flow just whatever description
you might have and the easiest way to
frame it for EQT?
>> Yeah, absolutely. As we talked about
earlier, the reported accounting either
GAAP or IFRS for these businesses is
very complicated because it often
requires that these companies
consolidate their underlying funds. So,
you really got to parse through it and
understand that there are effectively
two earning streams that matter a lot to
EQT. The first is the management fee
business and the second is the carry
stream. Starting with the management fee
business, EQT earns roughly 1.5%
management fees on committed capital.
That's important because market swings
don't move revenue around like they
would for a traditional asset manager.
In 2024,
management fees were about€2 billion
euros. So that's 1.5% on the 140 billion
of fee paying AUM and EBITDA on that
revenue stream was about a billion euros
or roughly 50% margin and that margin is
going up over time. So we think about
EQT raising another hundred billion more
or less they can do that with the same
team. So the incremental margins are
tremendously high and we'd expect those
margins to continue going up. Again, in
the industry, that earning stream is
known as fee related earnings or FRE.
And based on fundraising cycles, EQT has
historically experienced a really big
step up in FRE every few years. And
those step ups can be 50 to 80% and
we're about to get one of those. And
then the second earning stream is carry.
So EQ earns 20% of the profits on its
funds. That's the carry portion. And
from the carry revenue it generates, it
pays about 70% to its deal teams. That's
higher than a lot of the other alts
globally, but it results in attracting
really great investors and it results in
really long-term employee retention. And
then the GP or the public shareholders
keep about 30%. From an accounting
perspective, the carry to the GP, that's
us, the public shareholders, rolls
through as net revenue at almost 100%
margin. So again, the firm's generating
very little carry right now and
historically that's a great time to
invest in the alts. We think that carry
will step up to a billion plus euros of
annual net revenue in the next few
years. One important side note on the
carry, EQT funds have a structure known
as a European waterfall. Meaning EQT
only generates carry at the tail end of
a fund after its investors have received
their full preferred return of about 8%
annualized and then after that EQ gets
100% catch up and they generate a lot of
carry all at once. This is different
from many of the US players who benefit
from American waterfalls, meaning they
get carry after each deal is exited and
then their investors can claw that back
later if the fund ends up performing
below the prep. So based on the European
waterfall, EQT again is generating very
little cash carry right now, but that's
an opportunity because we think that
they will generate a lot of carry in the
next 5 years. It's interesting to hear
some of the nuance and I know to your
point the accounting conventions can be
a struggle but even that higher portion
that goes to the deal team you can make
a very strong case that is the best
alignment that you can have as a
shareholder in terms of what they're
being rewarded for. Totally agree. When
you compare alts against one another,
can you compare the financials? You
mentioned the percentage that would go
to the GP. Is there anything like in the
margin profiles of the business that are
comps to one another? I'm just curious
if there's anything else that stands
out. It might just be that GP carry, but
given the nature of the operating
leverage that exists within these, I'm
curious.
>> Yeah, I think the biggest nuance or the
biggest thing to look out for when
studying these alts is the difference in
the balance sheet profiles. And EQT is a
caplike business, meaning they have a
very small balance sheet. and EQT pays
out the majority of its fee related
earnings and carry earnings to
shareholders in the form of dividends
and stock buybacks. So putting that all
together that equates to something like
a 3 to 5% free cash flow yield perom
right now going up probably to 8 to 10%
in the next few years and all of that
will come back to shareholders. The
other strategy that some of the alts
have taken is the balance sheet or
capital heavy investment strategy which
is to grow the balance sheet and
compound it as much as they can over
time. And I would put KKR and Apollo in
that bucket. And then going even
further, they've actually acquired
captive insurance companies to add other
liability streams, if you will, and add
other earning streams to the business.
That's a much different profile and a
much different bet, if you will. I think
this jury is still out on what that
means in the near- term and long term.
Interestingly enough, I mean this is a
great debate, but I think it's quite
possible that the capital light models
have more stability in the near term
because when you have a tough macro or a
tough market and public market investors
don't know what's on the balance sheet,
they tend to ascribe very little value
to the balance sheet. That's just the
nature of public market investing. With
that said, I think there's actually a
very good argument to be made that the
capital intensive businesses or the
balance sheet intensive businesses like
KKR have more durability because in 30
years when the market changes and maybe
the alts of today are considered the
legacy traditional managers of 2050, KKR
and others will be able to use their
balance sheet to pivot into those new
markets and innovate. They all have
their own distinct advantages and
disadvantages, but the interesting thing
about investing in the alt space, you
get to pick your poison. You get to pick
the flavor that resonates with you.
>> And we've alluded to risks, but what
really stands out to you for EQT as an
investor in terms of risks to the thesis
you laid out, risks to the business.
There are the obvious ones, but what
really stands out to you?
>> There are a few risks here. The first
for any alt is its ability to recruit
and retain great people and stick to its
process. Particularly in Europe, we
think EQT has some distinct advantages
that allow it to recruit amazing people.
It has a long track record of great
performance. It has a culture built
around transparency and authenticity and
the Wallenberg values and people like
that. and it pays a really high portion
of carry to its deal team at roughly 70%
versus many of the other alts that pay
people less than that. So that's an
advantage for EQT. And with all that
said, we track human capital retention
and cultural data points constantly to
inform our thesis, but that's a big risk
with any alt. The second key risk here
is macro. EQT is unique in that
effectively all its business lines are
private equity in nature. So private
equity Europe and Asia is obviously
traditional private equity. Its
infrastructure business in many ways
looks like private equity. They aren't
buying toll roads. They're buying and
building data center businesses for
example. And a good chunk of its real
estate business is opportunistic high
return investing. So EQT sold its small
credit business a few years ago because
they thought it wasn't a great fit for
their strengths as active owners. So
they don't have a sticky fee ccentric
credit business like many of their
peers. As a result of that, it is a
slightly more macrosensitive business to
exit private equity investments. You
don't need an incredible macro
environment, but you need a stable macro
environment. And the truth is we haven't
had a lot of financial stability in the
last 5 years. So, it's been a volatile
environment that makes it harder for
private equity players like EQT to
generate carry. And because carry is
such a big part of this business, it is
actually meaningful for returns. They
need to generate carry for us to have a
satisfying return, which we would view
as 20 plus% gross return on this
investment over many many years. So,
that macro piece is important. And with
all that said, we think EQT is
innovating in ways that will allow it to
continue exiting investments and
generating great returns for their
investors. And then the third risk is a
philosophical debate, a philosophical
question that has been true, I think,
for all the alts for as long as I can
remember. And that is, can they generate
high returns with larger and larger fund
sizes? EQT's most recent flagship
private equity fund was 22 billion
euros. The flagship infrastructure fund
is about the same size and that's about
double the size of the flagship funds
just 7 years ago. Can they keep
generating 20% net IRS at this
increasing scale? And if they can't,
people might not be willing to entrust
them with more and more money. So, it's
really important for the thesis. You
know, there are a few ways that we got
comfortable with EQT's ability to
generate great returns perspectively.
One is that their process just hasn't
changed. They continue to buy great
businesses at fair values and businesses
that can grow 12 to 15% peranom, which
is really powerful and super unique in
the private equity world. to their funds
historically had a lot of co-invest
required to close those deals which is
another way of saying that when they had
a 15 or 16 billion euro fund they were
actually probably putting 25 to 30 to
work so they're used to doing this at
scale and three we think they're local
with locals sourcing model and sector
expertise are differentiated especially
in Europe which has a lot of family
businesses private equity is really
underpenetrated there and EQT's model is
a great fit for that market.
>> And I always like to get a sense of the
valuation framework that it might apply
for a specific business or industry. You
seem to be the right person to talk to
about this about EQT and alts as a
whole. talk about how you approach
valuation from a framework perspective,
how that might differentiate from the
space and less so the price target that
you might have in mind, but more just
around the framework that you would use
for valuing one of these businesses.
This is actually one of the really fun
parts of investing in the alts. There
aren't many sectors today in public
markets that are still inefficient.
People mostly know how to invest in tech
companies and how to value them. people
mostly know how to talk about industrial
companies and value them. If you look at
the alternative asset managers and you
even go in and look at a research report
with comps and you compare it to three
other analysts on the street, they'll
all use different frameworks. They all
use different multiples. One of them
might be using fee related earnings
pre-tax and not even thinking about
carry just talking about the FRE
multiples. the next one might use total
net income for 2025 and they won't even
mention whether Carrie is under earning
or over earning for that year. And so
there's a lot of inefficiency in this
market that actually continues to create
a great opportunity. And so let's step
back for a minute and I can share how we
value the alts. I think our way of doing
it has had some predictive qualities and
some consistency that we see or at least
correlation to good outcomes. So every
alt has a little bit of a different
carry profile and as we've talked about
some are private equity heavy like EQT
and they generate a lot of carry and
other alts generate very little carry.
So we try to value the carry business
remove that from the enterprise value as
if it was cash for example and then
isolate the value of the management fee
business. EQT's management has said that
existing funds will likely generate
about eight billion euros of carry or
more in the coming years. That's net of
payments to their employees. So that's 8
billion to the public shareholders. And
on top of that, they're kicking off a
big fund raise for a hundred billion
that can probably generate many billions
more of Carrie over time. So there are a
few ways to value carry. You can use an
NPV or you can capitalize it at a mids
singledigit multiple of annualized
earnings. the number comes out to
roughly the same which is that we think
the carry business here is worth
something like 10 billion euros or a
third of the market cap and in our base
case model EQT will generate a lot of
carry in the next 5 to 10 years on a net
basis probably between 30 to 50% of the
market cap will be return to
shareholders just from carry so doing
that exercise that allows us to isolate
the management fee business which is
really important because then we can
compare it on an apples to apples basis
versus other managers that might have
different strategies. The way we do it
at counter is we isolate management fees
and we always look at net income after
burdening for stockbased compensation,
depreciation and taxes or stockbased
comp capital intensity and taxes. On
this basis, the space trades at an
average of about 35 times forward net
income and the average alt is growing
management fees something like 6 to 10%.
On a side note, EQT is pretty unique in
that they have very low stockbased comp.
So, you've got a quality of earnings
benefit here, low stockbased
compensation, low tax rate relative to
peers globally. And so EQT trades at
about 20 times this isolated management
fee net income, something like a 30 to
40% discount to most the space, but it
will grow at much faster rates than the
space over the next 5 years. On a free
cash flow yield, we think EQT again will
generate a baseline of 3 to 5% return to
shareholders via dividends or stock
buybacks in 2025 and 2026. And that
should grow to something like seven to
10% free cash flow yield in the years
ahead after that. So back to your first
question, based on growth and quality of
earnings, we think EQT deserves a
premium, but it trades at a big discount
right now. We think a lot of that is due
to its geography and lack of carry
generation in the next 12 months.
>> And Sean, this has been a fascinating
conversation. We finish these off with
the lessons that you can potentially
take and apply elsewhere as an investor.
What stands out most about EQT that
could potentially be applied elsewhere?
>> I'll probably pivot away from the
investment side at this point. I mean,
we talked a lot about the pattern
recognition from lessons learned in the
market from 2010 to 15 that still apply
today in the alt space. But I think to
answer your question more directly on
what I've learned from EQT, I think
looking at EQT reinforces a really
important lesson, which is just to
invest your own way. It reinforces the
importance of being authentic and
sticking to your strategy. EQT with its
Nordic heritage, they could have tried
to copy others. They could have expanded
into a bunch of new sectors in search of
growth, but they didn't do that. They
maintained what some would call a really
narrow focus mainly on tech and
healthcare and they stuck to their
values. So that really resonates with us
at Counter Global. We have a really
narrow focus. We only invest in tech and
financial services and it's a pretty
small number of companies we care about.
>> Well, this has been a pleasure, Sean.
Thank you for joining us and breaking
down EQT.
>> Thank you so much, Matt. Really enjoyed
it.
To find more episodes of breakdowns
ranging from Costco to Visa to Madna or
to sign up for our weekly summary, check
out join colossus.com. That's j o i n o
ssus.com.
[Music]